
Questions:
* Can you imagine being able to choose your line manager, or not even having one
* Can you remember choosing what you work on, rather than being told?

Valve Operating Mode. Link

We had an Operating Model that worked, but in order to become more agile we started breaking it. Change control. Review and approvals.

Meta Governance.

https://medium.com/@jurgenappelo/no-agile-does-not-scale-98df99da3ff3#.4lhklfpcu
* "System laws suggest that shared rules (processes and tools) are crucial for the emergence of creative patterns at a larger scale. The question is, “Where do these rules come from?” Top-down processes and tools as imposed constraints are usually not agile, while emerging patterns of structured collaboration usually are. From a systems perspective, agility means bottom-up rules over top-down constraints."


Organisations are not all the same; but most are quite similar.
There are some near constants like hierarchy, often but not always with grades
The one we recognise has a lot to do with Max Weber, and Taylor
Whilst we find it hard to imagine any other way, these were big departures from the ways organisations were run previously.
But they are not the only ways.
Options around:
* The way we make decisions
* The way money flows
* Prioritisation
* Flow of work
* Conflict resolution
* Structure (but just one item)

represented in rules, norms, culture, etc.

but it's not culture!

The big quetsion today is whether we focus on the orgnisation with the people second, or the otehr way around.
  In the old model (theory X) we have to decide what is best for the organisation and then get people to confotm. In theory Y we figure out what is bets for people, and because they share the purpose of the organisation they will wnat to to the right thing for the organisation. With the former you have a busienss change battle of applying managaments will (which is getting harder and harder) and in the later, you don't.

So do we need an operating model?

We already have one, every organisatio does. It is just tacit (not written down) and is transmitted culturally.  So there are two questions do we want to be explicit about it, and do we want to change it?

I'd suggest that if we think it's fit for purpose there is only marginal value in writing it down, but if we want to change it writing it down is a really helpful way to agree what we do and don't like about what we have now.

competative pressures. where does talent want to work?

diversity of views;

link to complexity. hierarchilaist. grint

What I want is for organisations to be explicit about their opertaing model. If they

s

> Rome was ruled by a king. However, social unrest and the pressure of external threats led in 510 BCE the last king to be deposed by a group of aristocrats led by Lucius Junius Brutus.[65][66] A new constitution was crafted, but the conflict between the ruling families (patricians) and the rest of the population, the plebeians continued. The plebs were demanding for definite, written, and secular laws. The patrician priests, who were the recorders and interpreters of the statutes, by keeping their records secret used their monopoly against social change. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_democracy]
